   4 Windows 95
                                                                    v1.09


Windows* 95 installation notes for Intel's EtherExpress(TM) PRO/100+ PCI
LAN Adapters
========================================================================

LOCATION OF DRIVER:       \NT\E100B.SY_ (compressed)
LOCATION OF SETUP FILE:   \NET82557.INF


General Instructions
--------------------

1  Install the adapter in the computer and turn on the power.  Have the
   Windows 95 CD ROM available, as you will need it to copy additional
   files. While Windows 95 is starting, it will detect the new hardware.

2  When Windows 95 starts, a NEW HARDWARE FOUND dialog box appears. It
   identifies the adapter as a PCI Ethernet Controller.  Select the
   option "Driver from disk provided by Hardware Manufacturer".
   
   NOTE: If the New Hardware Found dialog box doesn't appear, you'll need
         to manually configure the adapter. See the section on
         alternative ways to add a network adapter to Windows 95.

3  Insert the EtherExpress PRO/100+ Configuration and Drivers disk in
   drive A and click OK.

4  A dialog box prompts for a location with "A:\". Click OK.

5  A dialog may appear requesting Windows 95 system network files. If so,
   follow the instructions.
      
      Note: The Windows 95 system files are typically available on the
            Windows 95 CD in the win95 directory (D:\win95). If Windows
            95 requests the E100B.DOS file, it can be found on the Intel
            Configuration and Drivers disk, typically in A:.

6  The Systems Setting Change dialog appears indicating you should
   restart the system for changes to become effective.  Remove the
   PRO/100+ adapter disk from the drive and click Yes for the changes to
   take effect.
   
   NOTE: Windows 95 will reference this adapter's driver as "Intel 82557-
         based PCI Ethernet" not "Intel EtherExpress PRO/100+ adapter".


Installing Intel's PROSet adapter diagnostic and configuration software
-----------------------------------------------------------------------

Intel's PROSet software allows you to test the adapter in the Windows 95
environment.  It can also resolve some Windows 95 issues that may result
from changing or updating adapter hardware.

1  From the Explorer, double click on the 3.5 floppy disk icon.  The
   Explore function can be accessed by clicking on the Windows 95 Start
   button with the right mouse button.

2  Locate the PROSet icon in the root directory of the diskette and click
   the right mouse button.  From the menu that appears, click Install.

3  When the PROSet software has been copied to your computer, go to the
   control panel and click on the PROSet icon.  PROSet examines your
   computer and displays the PROSet Window.  This window shows the
   adapter's I/O address, interrupt and Ethernet address.
   
   Note: The adapter's interrupt is set by the computer's BIOS.  If you
         have to change the interrupt, some computers allow you to change
         this setting, and some don't. Check your computer's
         documentation for details. PROSet will inform you of any
         problems with the current setting.

4  Click Test to begin diagnostics.


Advanced Configuration Parameters
---------------------------------

The defaults work correctly for most configurations. Please use caution
when changing these parameters.  To make a change, follow the steps
listed below.

Note: Be sure to use PROSet to configure these settings rather than the
      Advanced Configuration tab under Properties. Since this driver also
      supports all 82557-based adapters, some parameters have different
      values depending on which adapter is installed.  PROSet will
      display the proper values for the adapter you are configuring.  The
      Properties screen may not.

1  Double-click on the PROSet icon located in the Control Panel.

2  Click on Change button.

3  If you need to make changes to Speed and/or you are using a full
   duplex hub, change these options on the Basic Settings menu.

4  Click on Advanced.

5  For the highlighted Property on the left, the Value is displayed on
   the right.

Duplex Mode - Default Setting: Auto Duplex Detect
   
   A performance option that lets you choose how the adapter sends and
   receives packets over the network. A regular adapter can perform only
   one operation at a time (half-duplexing). The PRO/100+ adapter has the
   ability to send and receive packets at the same time (full-duplexing).
   In order to reap the benefits of full duplexing, you MUST have a full
   duplex hub.

         EtherExpress PRO/100+ TX adapter: Supports auto-negotiate, full
         and half duplex at 10 or 100 Mbps.

         EtherExpress PRO/100B T4 adapter: Supports full and half duplex
         at 10 Mbps; supports only half duplex at 100 Mbps.  Auto-
         negotiate is not a valid option at either speed.
   
   Auto Duplex: The adapter negotiates with the hub how to send/receive
      packets, either full or half duplex.  You must use a hub that
      supports Auto-negotiation (also known as Nway)
   
   Full Duplex: The adapter sends and receives packets at the same time.
      This improves the performance of your adapter. Set duplex mode to
      full duplex ONLY if you have a full duplex hub.
   
   Half Duplex: The adapter performs one operation at a time. It either
      sends or receives.

Note: If you select Full duplex you must manually set the Speed parameter
      to 100. Do not leave speed set to auto-detect.

The PRO/100 adapter has the added ability to "talk" to the hub and
determine at which mode to communicate (either full or half duplex). This
is called auto-negotiation. You must have an auto-negotiating hub (an
NWay* hub) to get full duplex support with the Duplex mode set to Auto
Duplex Detect. If you don't have an auto-negotiating hub, set Duplex mode
to Full Duplex and if you are operating at 100Mbs, you must set the Speed
parameter to 100.  Auto-speed detect will not work at 100mb.

Coalesce Buffers - Recommended setting:  8
   
   Number of memory buffers available to the driver in case the driver
   runs out of available Map Registers. This packet area is also used
   when a packet consists of many fragments.

Map Registers - Recommended Setting: 64
   
   Map registers are system resources used in physical to virtual address
   conversion with bus mastering cards. The Map Registers parameter
   specifies how many registers should be allocated to the driver.

Receive Buffers - Recommended setting:  16
   
   Specifies the number of buffers used by the driver when copying data
   to the protocol memory.

Transmit Control Blocks - Recommended setting:  16
   
   Specifies how many transmit control buffers the driver allocates for
   adapter use.  This directly corresponds to how many outstanding
   packets the driver can have in its "send" queue.

Speed - Default setting:  Auto Detect
   
   This parameter lets the EtherExpress PRO/100+ adapter know what speed
   to use on the Ethernet wire.  The choices are 10 Mbps, 100 Mbps, and
   Auto Detect.  In Auto Detect mode, the adapter detects if its
   environment can support 100 Mbps speed. It then sets the speed to 100
   if it can, or 10 if it can't. If you are using a crossover cable
   connected to another adapter, set the speed to either 10 Mbps or 100
   Mbps.

Alternatives for adding network cards to Windows 95
---------------------------------------------------

Windows 95 automatically detects Plug and Play devices when they are
added to the system, and either loads drivers for the new device, or
prompts the user for the location of the drivers.  However, this feature
does not work the same on all computers and with all cards.

This text provides alternatives for adding drivers for newly installed
hardware. One of these should work in cases where the general
instructions above don't work.

Some of these methods arrive at the same dialog boxes, but yield
different results because of the path taken.


Control Panel ... SYSTEM (Recommended Method)
--------------------------------------------
    
    1   Double-click My Computer.
    2   Double-click Control Panel.
    3   Double-click System.
    4   Click the Device Manager tab.
    5   Double-click Other Devices (question mark icon).
    6   Double-click PCI Ethernet Controller.
    7   Click the Driver tab.
    8   Click Change Driver.
    9   Select Network Adapters and click OK.
    10  Click Have Disk, insert the Intel Configuration and Drivers disk
        in the appropriate drive, and click OK.
   
   If you get into Device Manager and do not have an Other Devices icons
   in the device list, Windows 95 did not detect your card at all.  This
   condition indicates a problem with the adapter itself, or with the
   system BIOS, rather than a Windows 95 Plug and Play problem.


Control Panel ... Add New Hardware
----------------------------------
    
    1   Double-click My Computer.
    2   Double-click Control Panel.
    3   Double-click Add New Hardware.
    4   Click Next.
    5   Select the No option and click Next.
    6   Select Network Adapters and click Next.
    7   Click Have Disk, insert the Intel Configuration and Drivers disk
        in the appropriate drive, and click OK.
    8   Select the Intel 82557-based adapter and click OK.
    9   Click Next and click Finish.



Hints and Tips
--------------

1. Multiple Adapters in Windows 95:
   
   If you have multiple Intel PRO adapters installed in the system, be
   sure to install and run PROSet. It will automatically detect that you
   have multiple adapters and update the EID (Ethernet ID) field, which
   is required by Windows 95 for card identification.
   
   Background: If multiple network adapters are installed in a Windows 95
   system, each card must be identified by the last 8 digits of the
   Ethernet address.  However, Windows 95 requires decimal numbers which
   makes it necessary to perform a hex to decimal conversion.  For
   example, an adapter with the Ethernet address of 00AA00123456 would
   require putting 1193046 as the Ethernet ID value (00123456 converted
   to decimal is 1193046). Windows calculator, in scientific mode, is a
   tool you can use for the conversion if you need to do the conversion
   manually.

2. Windows 95 Push Installation:
   
   Intel has created some support files and readme information in an
   archive name 100PPUSH.EXE to help with Windows 95 push installations
   using the PRO/100+ adapter. Download 100PPUSH.EXE by visiting the web
   at support.intel.com or dialing the Intel BBS at 503-264-7999.

3. Using NDIS 2 driver and Full Duplex:
   
   Installing the NDIS 2 driver through Windows 95 does not properly set
   the driver to Full Duplex.  In order for you to use Full Duplex with
   E100B.DOS, you must edit the PROTOCOL.INI file in the Windows 95
   directory to include:
   
   [E100B_NIF]
   Drivername = E100B$
   FORCEDUPLEX = 2

4. Moving adapters to different slots:
   
   When removing a PCI adapter and placing it in a different slot,
   Windows 95 retains the old instance of the driver and adds a new one
   for the new slot/card combination.  This behavior is common to any
   adapter. The driver stops functioning when the number of accumulated
   old drivers reaches 2 (for a total of 3 installed drivers, including
   the current driver).  The workaround is to remove the old driver
   before changing slots, or to run PROSet and allow it to associate the
   card with the appropriate instance of the driver.

5. Swapping 82557-based adapters in the same slot.

   In order for Windows 95 to properly recognize a different 82557-based
   adapter in the same slot, the EID must be updated.  This update can be
   achieved in a few different ways. Perform one of the following items
   for the update to happen.
   
   -  The easiest method is to run PROSet after swapping the adapters.
   
   -  Or, remove the adapter by performing a Remove Device in the Device
      Manager or Remove Adapter in Network Control Panel. Then, shut down
      the computer and install the other 82557-based adapter.
   
   -  Or, shut down the computer, remove the adapter, turn on the
      computer and start Windows 95 without any adapter. At this point,
      Windows 95 detects that the adapter was removed and deletes the
      obsolete registry entries.  Shut down the computer, install the
      adapter, start Windows 95, and perform a regular adapter
      installation.



*  Third-party trademarks are the property of their respective owners.



